let's go live to Jerusalem straight to
our diplomatic correspondent Paul Adams
and Paul just quickly first of all as we
shift phases according to Israel's
military your assessment of what we were
just listening
to well I think that note of urgency was
was very very marked wasn't it Matthew
uh this was I think the sternest
strongest most perhaps impassioned
warning from the Israelis that we have
seen so far and I think it's also the
first time
that they have said that when this is
over you can go back uh this is
obviously addressing the fears that many
many Palestinians have which is that if
they leave their homes they're never
going to go back to to them because the
homes won't be there all somehow they
will be driven uh further maybe even
South into Egypt so I think that was
quite a not noticeable addition to uh
his remarks uh as for how long this
latest operation is going to go on well
the defense minister has said the oper
operation will continue until further
notice and he has referred to the fact
that we have accomplished a phase in the
war so clearly the Israelis feel that
they are doing something slightly
different now uh whether this is
something that is going to continue in
the coming days or we we don't know or
whether they feel they have somehow
accomplished something we also don't
know that the attack by Hass was
unprecedented the response is
unprecedented but also the situ
with the hostages
unprecedented I think this is really
interesting Matthew the pressure the
sense of pressure on the government is
mounting day by day it's really really
palpable there's another demonstration
going on uh in Tel Aviv today as you've
already mentioned the uh relatives are
demanding uh to meet with the Prime
Minister and the defense minister that
meeting we believe is going to take
place later this evening and if I can
just read you for from a the statement
put out by a spokesperson for the
hostages and missing
families we are tired of slogans they
say our Lov ones time is running out and
they have been held in appalling
conditions underground in the dark for 3
weeks some wounded and every additional
hour could be a death sentence we expect
the Prime Minister and defense minister
to arrive with clear answers on how to
bring the hostages home that's those are
really strong words and I don't think
the Prime Minister can ignore that this
sense that both among Israelis but also
among a number of foreign governments
including the United States they they
really really want the Israeli
government to do whatever it takes to
bring hostages home and there are some
people with long experience of dealing
with Gaza who say we should be pausing
now we should stop the fighting now to
allow an opportunity to get the hostages
out that doesn't mean we won't return to
the fight uh eventually but just for now
that should be priority number one
Paul Adams there in Jerusalem thanks
very much well the bombardment in Gaza
is continuing I was just looking out of
the corner of my eye another plume of
smoke there and we've seen that in the
intensification of this over the last 18
24 hours that the scene of the skyline
there you see the clouds of smoke uh
they have been throughout the course of
the last little while as Israel moves
phases and our correspondent telling us
just what that was like on the ground
and of course at the same time
Communications cut off but we were able
to finally reach our correspondent rushi
Abu Alou in Gaza a little earlier he
used a satellite telephone to
communicate with us have a listen to
this it's about 13 14 hours Gaza without
communication without internet and
without mobile signal the Palestinian
Health Minister just issue a statement
saying that about 400 people were killed
overnight in the Israeli air strikes in
the north Israel said that they have
expand their operation especially in
Gaza City and the north here in canun
also there was many air strikes
overnight with about 20 people killed
about 15 targets around this area and
around the middle camps people are
really worried since the Israel is
cutting all the
communication uh people can't
communicate with their relative with
their friends in Gaza City and the North
and people were really in panic I saw
people in the streets today less people
in the streets than yesterday people are
afraid of the next stage of the
operation they believe that cutting the
communication this is the first time
ever
since Hamas took over Gaza and four Wars
before uh we haven't seen Israel
completely cutting the communication
with Gaza uh the humanitarian situation
is also getting worse and wor
with Israel not allowing food and
medicine I've have seen people
struggling to find water here in the
hospital people are struggling to find
fuel to run the generator and work in
the in the hospital the medical crews
are struggling the ambulance services is
almost shut down since the morning they
they say we don't know where to go and
how to communicate with the people after
an a strike they they wait for anal any
news from the people on the ground and
then they move quickly to the to the
scene and back with casualities here in
the hospital so it's real catastrophic
situation our correspondent there on the
ground in southern Casta let me